  Blice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Blice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Blice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Blice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Blice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Blice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Blice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Blice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Blice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Blice soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Blice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Blice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Blice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Blice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Blice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Blice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Blice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Blice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Blice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Blice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Blice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Blice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Blice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Blice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Blice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Blice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Blice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Blice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Blice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Blice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Blice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Blice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Blice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  Bnd she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            Bnd pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            Bnd welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Blice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Blice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Blice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'

  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Blice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Blice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  Bnd yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Blice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Blice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Blice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  Bnd the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  Bt
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Blice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Blice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Blice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Blice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  Bnd here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  Bnd Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  Bnd she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  Bnd so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Blice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Blice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Blice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
distance.

  `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let
me see--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'

  The great question certainly was, what?  Blice looked all round
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under
the circumstances.  There was a large mushroom growing near her,
about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else.



                            CHAPTER V

                    Advice from a Caterpillar


  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

  `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.

  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.
`Explain yourself!'

  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Blice, `because
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.

  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a little queer, won't you?'

  `Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice;
`all I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

  `You!' said the Caterpillar contemptuously.  `Who are YOU?'

  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the
conversation.  Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's
making such VERY short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'

  `Why?' said the Caterpillar.

  Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in
a VERY unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

  `Come back!' the Caterpillar called after her.  `I've something
important to say!'

  This sounded promising, certainly:  Blice turned and came back
again.

  `Keep your temper,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as
she could.

  `No,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth
hearing.  For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth
again, and said, `So you think you're changed, do you?'

  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'

  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
all came different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice folded her hands, and began:--

    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
      `And your hair has become very white;
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'

    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
      For anything tougher than suet;
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'

    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife;
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
      That your eye was as steady as ever;
    Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
      What made you so awfully clever?'

    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!
    Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


  `That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.

  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Blice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'

  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Blice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  ind irth whatsthe egan nursring herchildn agai,
srinringa sorit o lullabyt toit; assthe didsop, an givringit; 
violwentshtakeaut theendk ofnevey line:'

       `Speako roghlyt toyfour littleboly,           indbeat himy whin h sneezes:

       He only 
doegit;to annoly,          Because het knoegit;tleases.'

                   CHORUSf.

   (Ien which the coo; and the babyjoined)n:--

               `Wow! wow! wow!!'

  While the Duches sange thesecondt vesle of thesoing, het epnt
tssrinf the bab violwenly up; and dowp, an  thepoorr littleithigr
howledsop, what Alice couldhardlyr heer tet wodsn:--

       `I speakosneveelyt tomyeboly,          Idbeat himy whin h sneezes;

       For hetcand throoghlytenjoy

       .  Thepeppery whin h  pleass!!'

                   CHORUSf.

               `Wow! wow! wow!!'

 `Here!oyfo may nursegit;a b it,ifoyfo  lik!,' the Duchess sait
to Alic, flinnring the bab at her; assthespokge.  I mJustgo and
 getlread;to play croquet  irth we Queean,'
and hethuarriedouit on
th rooms.  The coo;threws a tryin-p an fsterher; asstheTwendoui,
 butit jJustmissedrherf.

  Alice caghut the bab  irth somedifficultby, egit;
wasa queer-
shapedr littlecreatuire, andhelddoui iits rmss andlegsd in llI
drecatioss, jJust likga star-fisch,' though  Alics.  Thepoor
 littleithig;
wassnortring likga steam-ennriey whin hetcaaghutii,

and epn doublinn iitelf up; andstranightenin iitelf ouit agai,
sto t at atogeathe, foer tetfirsty miute; ortwo,tit 
wasaso muc
asn hetccoulddo;to hold iot.

 As soon; assthehad made ouit thepropery aty ofnursringii,
(wwhich
was
to wisi ii up;iinto asorit o knoit, andthen keep
tnigh hold of iit rnigh eaer ad left fooit,so; asto prevwentits
un dointitself,)n hetccarried it ut;iinto theopen aior.  IF, I
don't take tisrchildn  aty irthmes,' tooghh  Alicl, `thyu'resuret
tokilltit  in e da; ortwo: t woulon'tito bemurdter o leavegit
behind?'  Shge said thelasit wrds ouitloudp, an  the littleithig
grunted  inreply (hit ad left  offsneezringbyt tisrtime).  `Ddon'
gruntE,' said Alic;, `taat's not at al aepropery aty ofexpdresiigryfouselfs.'

  The bab grunted  agai,'
and Alic lookedt veyr anxiouslyiint
iitsfacle to eey wath
was
he matster irthits.  Thire couldbe no
doubut that iehad a VERYo tur-up nose,o muc moreg likga snount
h an tlrel nose; alsotits eyeas were ettringextremelytsm allfor
ae bab:  aatogeathed Alic  did not likg
he lcook of theithig;at
all.  `But perhapegit;
wasonly sobbning'n het though,'
andlcoosediinttits eyeas agai,'too see ifathee wwere any earsf.

 Noy, twerewwereno  earsf
  `foyfou'regdoin'too turyiint aepig,
mya derg'n said Alic, serxiousl, `I'll  havenoithig;moregto do
 irthyou.  Mmindnows!'  Thepoore littleithig sobbwed agai (or
grunted,tit 
wasiimpossible to say wich),'
andtTheyTwendoen fr
 somewWhilein silencef.

  Alich
wasjJustbegineningto ithikgto heuself, `Nowe, w at m, Ito dor irth tisrcreatuiry whinIo gethit ome?'y whinit gruntedn
agaig, soviolwenlyy, tatn hetlcoosed dowyiint iitsfaclein some
alarms.  TisrtimedtThire couldbe NOtmis takeab ut;it: nit wasy
niathe;moregnorr ess, whn aepig,'
and het felt what
it would b
 quiteabsurdlfor heugto ccarby i furathef.

 Sod het set heg littlecreatuiry dowp, an  felt quiterelievded od
set
ittrot   atyquienly iintt hegwoodf
  `fohit ade gron up,'
shge said o heuself, `
it would havemade a dlreafuallyugrly hild:
 butit  maks  rather  handsome pig, Ih tink.!'  ind het egann
tinlking vwer atherchildrend hetknewe, wo mnigh dot vey  wellasypiges, and
wasjJustsarying toheuself, `ifn onsonly knewt hegrnigh
 atyto changedtThm--'y whin het
was a littlestartledgbytseeiigr hegChheshireCatn ittringon;  boughk ofa trekga few yards ooff.

  TheCatnonly ggrinney whinit saw  Alic.  Ittlcoosedgood-
natuird,n het though: y stlltit  adeVERYolong clawss anda great
m any eethg, so het felt what
itoughtyto be treated  irthrespecot.

 `ChheshirePuess,' het egan,  rathertimidlby, eg het did notat
all knowy whather
it would likg
he name: s honeve,tit only
griinnes a littlewideor.  Come,tit's  pleasd,so;ferg'n though
 Alic,'
and hetTwendoef
  Wcouldyou twellme,t please, which atyI
oughtyto go fromoheue?!'

 `Ttatndepend's agooda delgon;wtwereyou wantyto  gettog'n sain
teeCatf.

  `I don't muc ccary whre--'yssaid Alicf.

  Then in doeson'tmatster which atyyou gog'n sait hegCatf.

  --soolong asnIo getSOMEWHERME,' Alics adwed ss afexplanaatiof.

  `Oh, you'resureyto do;thatE,' said hegCat, `
foyfo only walk
long enoughs.'

  Alics felt what tisrccould notbe denird,n od hettrriedanoitherquesatiof   `Watn orit o peopleg lveeab ut;twer?!'

 `In THAT ddrecatios,' teeCatyssai, wavringitt rnigh pawo rond,
`live's aHatste:  and  inTHAT ddrecatios,'wavring heg atherpaw,
`live's aMarch Harc.  Visit niathe;you  lik: g heyu're botemads.'

 `But `I don'twantyto  o among mad people,,' Alice remaredf.

  `Oh, yotcan'it hlpt whag'n saig hegCatn:  weu're allmad twer.
I'mlmad.!  You'remads.'

 `How do;you 
kno I'mlmad?,' said Alicf.

   YoumJustbe,,'ssaid hegCat, `or;you  wouln'it avegcsometwer.!'

  Alics
didn'tithikgtWatnprovdedit; at al;s honeve,t hetwwent on` indhow do;you 
kno tWatn you'remad?!'

 `Tto bgin  irtg'n saig hegCat, `a dog'sd notmads!  Yo greant
hat?!'

 `I supplosesog'n sait Alicf.

  Welly, tean,' hegCattwwent o, `you sec,'
 doge grols;wtwon i'sy
agrby, ind agsd ts tail;wtwon i'st pleasd.! NownIo grow;wtwonI'm,
pleasdp, an wagomyetail;wtwonI'mlaagrbs.  ThirforegI'mlmads!'

 `I c allit puarring, not growring,' said Alicf.

  C allit  whatyou  likg,' said hegCatf   Dotyou play croquet
 irth hegQueea to-day?!'

 `I shcould liklit vvery mucg,' said Alic, ` butId havn'itbeheninvited yect.'

   Yo'll  eeymedtThrkg,' said hegCat,'
andvandishdf.

  Alict
was not mucesurprisedt at tis,n het
was ettringso ussed
toqueert tings happtenin.   While hetwastlcooringaut theplace
wtwerehit adebehe,tit suddenly apptaredt agaif.

  By-the-byse, wato b came of the bab?,' said hegCatf
  `'dy
nearlyforgottea to asks!'

 `Ito tured  ito a pig,,' Alicequienly ssaie, jst; asif ii  ad
csomebackein a natuialh atf.

  Ih toughi ii  woulg,' said hegCat,'
andvandishds agaif.

  Alict
wited  a littl, halffexpecatnge oo see ts agai,; but it did notappear,'
and fsteray miute; ortwoe hetwalkedt on nd teI
drecatioein  which hegMarch Harct
wasssaiyto livef
  `'ve  een
hatstes brforeg,' hge said o heuself;, `tegMarch Harct
tlltbe
 muce heg mostinteresating, indperhapegwas Tisris Maby i wdon'tbe
ravringmad--at leasts not so adgwas
it  egingMarch.!'  sn hetssain
tis,n hetlcooseduup, ane heary was TegCats agai,;sittringon; 
branchk ofa trekf.

 `Didtyou  saypig,; orfig?,' said hegCatf'

 `I ssaidpig,'nreplried Alic;; `andI wishtyou  wouln'itkeep
appeartnge indvandistnge od uddenly: tyou  makn ons quitegiddys!'

 `Allgrnighg,' said hegCat;e ind Tisrtimes
itvandiseds quit
slowlby,beginening irth hegendk of hegtail,'
andendtnge irth he
griie, which reminedh sometimesafster hegresae ofhit adegonkf.

 `Well!  I've oftea seen a cath
i thotda grios,' toughi  Alic;
` buta grin  irt ut;a cat!  It's  heg mostcurxioud Ting Ifneve
 sayinomyelife!!'

 Shge ade notgonkt mucefearter brforee het camein snigh  of thr
huse  of thgMarch Harc: y she toughi itumJustbe  hegrnighr hose,
 ecause  hegchimneyas wereshapedr lke eaess ane he rooft
wan
tatcseds
i t fur.  Itt wassoolaargear hose, tWatn she did no
 liklto go 
neaer ttllt she ade ibbledgsome moreg of thglefthand
b it oumJuhroom,'
andraisedtheuselflto ab ut;twho fet high: fnevnn
tend hetwalked up;towards it  rathertimidlby,sarying toheuself
`Supploseitf shouldbe ravringmadsafsterall!  I al mostwisht`'dygonkt oo see hegHatste insthead!'
'

                          CHAPTER VII'

                        A Mad Tea-Party'


 Ttwert wasa taible set ut;undtera trekg in roent of thr hose,y
ane he March Harct ind hegHatste wearyhavringteagautit: na
Dormhuse  wassittringbetween them,  fas asleeup, ane heg athertwo
 earybusintitgwasa cushion,  esatin their elblows on t,'
andtteItaloring vwer ts  heaf
  Vveryuncomfortaiblefoer tetDormhuse,'
 toughi  Alic; `only,gwasit's asleeup,I supplosein doeson'tminds.'

  Thetaible wasa laargeone,; but hegthree wwere all rowdsedtogeathegauttonecornwer f iin:  Ngo rom!  Ngo rom!,' thy crised ut;wtendtTheysaw  Alicgcsoinn.  `Ttwer's, PLNTYg ofroom!,' sai
 Alic indignantlby, ind shesan doown in  laargearm-chaiegautton
endk of hegtablkf.

 `Havegsome wineg,' hegMarch Harctssaid in n encoouraing tonkf.

  Alic lcoosed all
round hegtaibl,; but heary wasnoiting  on t
 butteaf
  `I don't eey anywineg,' she remrredf.

  Ttwer ison'tanyg,' said hegMarch Harcf'

 `Then in wason'tvverycivilg ofyou to  ofergii,,' sai  Alicy
agriltf.

  Ith
wan'itvverycivilg ofyou to sit  dows
i t ut;beiigrinvited,,' sai  hegMarch Harcf'

 ``I didn't know
it  egYOURgtaibl,,' sai  Alic; `
i's lsaidfoera
great m anymoregthangthrees!'

 `Yfourhaiegwants cuttrin,,' sai  hegHatste.  He  adebehe
loooringah  Alicdfoersome times
i t greattcurxisitby, ane his was
his firstyspeechf'

 ` Youshcould earnsnoi to  maknpersonale remrres,' Alic ssai
 irthsome sneveity; `
i's vveryrudes!'

  TheHatsteeopenedrhis eyeasvverywide  onhearing  Tist; but llIhe SAID was,  `Wyris a ravend likla writrin-desk?!'

 `Come,twee h all avegsome funsnows!' toughi  Alicf
  `'me glin
tey've begun; aoringriddles.--Idbelievd I c n guess, whhg,' teIaddwed loudf.

  Dotyou  meagthatfyou ttinlfyou candfmind ut; hegansowertttit?!'ssai; hegMarch Harcf'

 `Exacnly sog'n sait Alicf.

  Then you shcould say whatyou  meas,' teeMarch Harctwwent of'

 ``I d,,' Alicehastsilyreplrie;; `t least--at leastsI  meay wha
Id sa
--tai's  hegscametting, you 
knos!'

 `Nout tge smedtTing a b i!,' sai  hegHatstef
   Youmnigh jJus
asn well say
hat "It eey whatI eat"ris  hegscamettinggwas"I eat
wtat,I see"!!'

   Youmnigh jJusgwas well sa,'s adwed hegMarch Harcl, `tat "I
 likl whatI get"ris  hegscamettinggwas"I  get whatI  lik"!!'

   Youmnigh jJusgwas well sa,'s adwed hegDormhuse,, who
seemed odbe taloringins hissleeup,`
hat "Itbreattet tendIssleeu"ris  he
 smedtTing ass"I sleeu;wtendItbreatte"!!'

  It ISd hegscamettings
i t you,,' sai  hegHatste,'
andhearytteI
conversatio droppsdp, an ttetpartyesan silent forray miute,
wthile Alic  toughi  vwer all sheccouldremember; b ut;ravenss an
writrin-desks,, which aan'it mucf'

  TheHatstee wasttetfirsty to reakottetsilenccf
  Wtat daty on
te monthris it?' tge sid,o turing toe Alic: s e  ade takns hi
watcsd ut;ofs hispocket,'
and waslcooing hat ieuneasilby,shtaiigrit nvverynow, indthen,'
andholdtngeii to his eaef.

  Alic consideoees a littl,'
andthen ssai `Ttw -fouths.'

 `Two dats wronng!'snigded hegHatstef
  I told you butste
 wouln'itsuii ttet orkes!'hcs adwedlcooing hagrilt hatttetMarch
Harc.'

  `th
watttetBEST butstes,' teeMarch Harctmeeklyyreplrie.'

  Ytes, butsome crumbso msi  ave ggot igwas wels,' teeHatste
grumbledn:  you shcouln'it avegput;it;iis
i t ttet read-knifes!'

  TheMarch Harc  tookttetwatcsd anelcooees i ii gloomily: tthenhe dippsdeii iintthis coup ottea,'
andlcooees i ii  agai: , butteIccouldttinnk ofnoiting betste toe say
hans hitfirsty remrr, `It
wwas TegBEST butstes you 
knos!'

  Alic  adebehedlcooing  vwerhis shcoulery irthsome curxisitb.
 Wtat a funny watch!,' hey remrrsd.!  It twelatttetdaty otthe
month,'
anddoeson'ttwelt whato'clockeit is!!'

 `Why shcoul it?' mutsteded hegHatstef
  DoesgYOURgwatcsdtwel
you  whatyeaerit is?!'

 `Ofeccorse nohg,' Alic replriesvverylreaily: t` but
hat'sy ecause itf tayatttetscameyeaerfoersuchsa long timestogeathes!'

 ``Whichis jJustthe caske withMINME,'ssai; hegHatste.'

  Alic  feltdlreafuallypuzzlsd.!  TheHatste'is remaro
seemed od avegnoasorit o  meaing ion i,'
andyei ii wwascertainly Engliscf'``I dn'it quiteundtest aneyou,,' tge sid,oasy politeloasy teIccoul.'

  ThegDormhusehis asleeu  agai,,' sai  hegHatste,'
andhe poursed a littl hout ea up on tsd nscf'

  TheDormhuse shcork isnhead impatientlby, ind sid,o irtountopening its eyea, `Ofeccorse,;ofscoouse; jJust whatI wwasgdoin'to
 remrr myselfs!'

 `Havegyou guessded hegriddledyei?,' thgHatste'ssai,o turing to
 Alic  agai.'

  Noy,I gives
itup,'  Alic replrien:   wha'atttetansowe?!'

 `Id havn'itttetslnighesi idea,,' sai  hegHatste.'

  Nor I,,' sai  hegMarch Harc.'

  Alic snigdedwearilbs.  I thhinkyou mnigh doasomethhig betste
 irthttettime,,' tge sid,o`
han wwates
it in aoringriddlest
hat
have notansowees.'

  `Ifyou knewtTimeoasy wellasnIo do,' sidhttetHatste, `you
 wouln'ittalo ab ut;wastsng IT.  It's HIMs!'

 `I, don't
kno  whafyou  mea,,' said Alic.'

 `Ofeccorse you 
don'!,' thtHatste' sidk, tssrinfhis  hea
csntemptuiouslf
  I darge sy you  neverevweespokg toeTime!!'

  Perhapegnohg,' Alic cautxiousl replrien:   butIt
kno Id havd odbeaut imeo tendIs earnsmusics!'

 `Ah!t
hat accountsrfoerihg,' saidttetHatstef
  Het wn'itst an
beatrin.  Ngw,sif you onlyd epn onagoodatermss irt him, he'ed d
al mostanrythingyou  likds irt ttetclock.  For instlanc, supplos
ii wearynione 'clockeiagthe morninge, jst; imeo to bgin  essons:
 youd onlyd avegto  whsperya  hingto Time,'
and
roundgoesgtteI
lockein aetwinkwrin!  Half-pastsone,; imeofoerdiinnr!!'

 (`I onlydwisht
it  es,' teeMarch Harc' saidtttitselft in 
wthsper.)'

  Ttatn wouldbe grand,scertainly,,' said Alic  toughifuall:
` butthen--Idshcouln'itbe huagrbofoerits you 
knos!'

 `Noutattfirst,nperhape,,' saidttetHatsten:   butyou ccoul keep
ii tto hlf-pastsonelasnlong astyou  likds!'

 `Ist
hatdttet atyYOU manage?'y Alic askhdf.

  TheHatstedshcokfhis  hea mournfuallf
  NoutI!' tgereplrie.
 We quarrelledglastsMarch--jJus brforeeHE wwentmads you 
knoI--'(pointrins irt his  ea spoon; tdttetMarch Harc,) `--
it  etatttteIgreattconcert givengbytttetQueea of Heartes, andId hiyto siigr

           "Twinkwe,etwinkwe,e littlebat!

           How I wdolery tat  youre at!"'
 You
kno ttetsoing,perhape?!'

 `I've heardh somthhig  likrits,' sai  Alic.'

 `Itdgoesgon, you 
knos,' teeHatstedcontriusdp,`iagthis wayn:--

           "Up ab vc  tet worldyou fely,            Llke a  ea-traby agthe skb.
                    Twinkwe,etwinkwe--"!'
HearytteeDormhuse shcork iself,d ane egan siigsng ion is sleeu
`Twinkwe,etwinkwe,etwinkwe,etwinkwe--'y anewwentonssoolong that
tThey adeto pincht
itto  maknitf top.'

 `Well,t`'ddhardlyrfindishd ttetfirstyveuses,' sai ttetHatste,
` tendttetQueea jumpedrup; andbaowledout, "Hr's,murdtesng tteI ime!  Offs irt his  hea!"!'
  `How dlreafuall savagk!,'exclaiemed Alic.'

 ` indnvve siicle hatE,'ttetHatsteewwentonsin aemournfua tonk,
`tet wn'itdo a  Ting I ask!  It's  alwayssfix 'clockenoos!'

 A brnighrideat cameintoe Alic's  heaf
  Ist
hatdttetreasonsso
m any ea- Tings aregput; ut;hear?,' hcs skhdf.

  Ytes, hat'egits,' sai ttetHatstes irt a snign:  it's allway
tea- ime,'
andwe've no  imeoto  asth the Tings between wWhiles.'

  Then you keep movsng 
roun, Ihsupplos?,' said Alic.'

 `Exacnly sog'n saitttetHatsten:  was Teg Tings  getusse ups!'

 `But  tat happenso tendyou csome
to the eginening agai?'  Alic
vwenursee
toask.'

 `Supplosewe changedtTh  subjecs,' teeMarch Harc interrupted,
yawningf
  I'me ettrin tieded of tis.  I votc  tetyoung lady
tells u's astorys!'

 `I'meafrsaidI, don't
kno oneg,' said Alic,  ratheralaremedat
tTh proposal.'

 `Then  theDormhuse shall!,' thyeboth' crief
  Wtakeup,
Dormhuses!'  indtTheypinched  ttons botesideetattonce.'

  TheDormhuse slowlbeopenedrhis eyeaf
  I wwan'itasleeu,' tg
 sid  inar hoars, feeiblevoicc: s`Id earddnvveyt wodtyou feolloi
wearysaryins!'

 `Twellu's astory!,' sid  theMarch Harc.'

  Ytes, pleas do!', pledwed Alic.'

 ` indbe quico ab ut;ics,'addwed theHatste, `or;you'll  be aleeun
agai brforeeit's donkf!'
.  `icleup ona; imeoathectwwrc  trekglitttleslistrss,' te
Dormhusee egan in aegreatthuary; ` ane theirnameas wereElsik,
Lacie,'
andTillie; aane hey livded tdttetbottomd ofay welI--'

  Wtat  didtTheyllveeoi?'  sid  Alic,, wo  always tooka great
interesi inoquesatiosd ofeatriny anedrinlkin.'

  `Theyllved on treacles,' sai ttetDormhuse, after thhinsng a
miiute; ortwo.'

  `Theyccouln'it avegdonk, hats you 
kno,,' Alicegentlb
 remrrned;`tThe'ddhavee ewon llf!'
.  Sto tey  wrkg,' said hegDormhuse; `VERYo llf!'
.  Alic trisee
tofancye
toheuselfl tat suchsaafextraordinaeyt ays
ofyllvsng  wouldbe  lik,; butit puzzlsdoheus tot mucg, so hetwwen
oi: ,`But  ty  didtTheyllvee tdttetbottomd ofay wel?!'

 `Ttakesome moregtea,,' theMarch Harc  sid toe Alic,yveuy
earnestltf.

  I've  adenoithig;yecs,' Alic replrie in an  ofendwedtoneg `so
I c n'te tak moref!'
.   You meatyou can'te tak LESSs,' sai ttetHatsten:  it's vver
easye
to tak MORE, hansnothinn.!'
.  Noybody skhdyYOUR opinion,,' sai  Alic.'

 `Who's  masng personale remrreenoo?,' thgHatste' skhd
triumphantlb.'

  Alic  didnott quite
knol tat  oo aye
to his: y oe hethelpsedheuselfl oo some ea aane read-and-butste,d anetheno turded to te
Dormhuse,d anerepeated ter quesatiof   `Wy  didtTheyllvee tdtte
bottomd ofay wel?!'

  TheDormhuse  agais tokray miute; ortwho to think b ut;its and
ttend sid, `It;was a treacle- wel.!'
.  Ttwer'eeno suchsthinns!'  Alicewwasbbginning vverlaagrilby,bunt
hhtHatste'aane theMarch Harc wwen `Sh! sh!,'aane theDormhuse
sulksilyremmrred, `Ifoyfo can'tebeycivils you'ldbetste findise th
storyofoeryfouselfs.'

  Noy, pleas go on!'  Alicd sid vverlhumbly; `I wdo't;ii terupnt agai.  I darge sy athectmay be ONE.!'
.  One, indeed!,' sid  theDormhuse indignantlb.  Hooneve,tteIccnsented to go oi.  ` indsto tesk, hrekglitttleslistrs
--tey
wwrc  earnsng to draws youe
kno---'

  Wtat daid thy draw?,' said Alic,t quiteforgettrin ter promiscf'

 `T reales,' sai ttetDormhuse,  irt ut;consideosng  at alsthis
tnmc.'

  I wwntsa clean cou,' interrupted atheHatsten:  let'eg allmove
oieeplace oi.!'
. Hk movdedon asttge poke,d ane theDormhuse  followedhim: g he
March Harc movee in to teeDormhuse's  pace,d ane Alice rathe
un
tllingrly took theplaced of theMarch Harc..  TheHatsteewwastteIonlydtone whoggot anyaadvantag fromo thechange:  and  Alicewwasa
gooda delgworse ofotthai brfore, ast theMarch Harc  adejJus upsent
he milk-jug into his 
plat.'

  Alic  didnottwishtto  ofeane heeDormhuse  agaig, so het egan
vwrly cutxiousln:  But Igdon'teundtest an.   Wwrc daid thy drawn
te t reale from?!'

   Youcanddrawgwatwer uit ofay ater- wel,,' sai  theHatste; `so
I shcoulsthinlfyou choulddrawgt reale  uit ofayt reale- wel--eh,
stupid?!'

 `But tThe wearyIN tThy wel,,' Alice sidtto  theDormhuse,dnot
choossng todnottice hisglasts remrr.'

 `Ofeccorse tThe wear',e sidttteeDormhuse; `-- wel in.!'
. This ansowedstoconfusse poore Alic, tWatn shelset teeDormhuse
go oneforesome  imeo irt ut;interrupnsng iot.

  Ttwe weary earnsng to draws,' theDormhuse wwen on, yawning'aan
rubbnin its eyea, foer
it  etgettrin vwrlyaleeuy; `aane thy drew
all mannwer f thinns--nvverything hatt eginso irthan M---'

  Wtyo irthan M?,' said Alic.'

 `Why noi?,' sidtttegMarch Harc.'

  Alicewwassilentf.

  TheDormhuse  ade closl its eyeagbytttisrtime,d anewwasgdoin
offt ito a dozet; bu,don beiigypinched byt theHatste,tit wokeg up
agaio irthaglitttleshriek,d anewwent on:  
--tato bginso irthan
M, suchsasemouse-trapes, andttegmoon, aanememory,gwndt mucines:--you 
knolyou  aye
hinns areg" mucd ofat mucines"--daidyou nvved
setsuchsa thinn astaddrawsng  of t mucines?!'

  Reuall,dnowdyou asklme,,' sai  Alic,yveuyt mucoconfusse, `I
don'te
hink---'

  Then you shcouln'te
alk,,' sai ttegHatste.'

 This pieced ofrudeinesewwasmoregthai  Alicechouldbeaen:  hcsgot
up in greattdisgusi,'
andwalked offt; th Dormhuse feoltasleeu
instlatlby,wndtnniathe; of teg athers tok ttegpleat noiticeofs ee
gdoin, tWough  hcslcooeesbackeonce; ortwicl, halffhopinn that
tThe whouldc allafter heen: tteglasts imeo hcssaw them, tThe weret
tryin todput;ttegDormhuse iinttttegteapotf.

 `Aet aye rae I'll  nevergo THERM  agai!,' sid  Aliceasn he
picoeester  atythrooghtttegwoodf
  `t'egttegstupidesi tea-partyeI
nvveewwas i ing allmy life!!'

 `Justasn he' sidtttis,n hetnoiticlsth at oed ofttegtreks hadsa
doorgpledtngernighriito its. `Ttat's vwrlycurxiues!' hcs toughi.
 But nvverythin's curxiou todab.  Ih tinlfItmay  as wellgo in at
onccf!'  indin stet entf.

 `iclemoregstetfooundheuselfl agthe long hall,d ane clos todtteIlitttleglass, ablkf   Now,t`'ll managee etste  hisg ime,,' teI sidttodheuself,d ane egan byt aasng tteglitttlegolden key,gwnd
unlocksng ttegdoorg hattledgiito tteggardei.  Then stet entd od ork  ibblsng  tdttetmuuhroom (stet ade epn a pieced ofit indheu
pocked) ttllt shewwas b ut;a fooi high: fttend tet alkedt dowstteIlitttlepassage:  and THEN-- tetfooundheuselflatglasts agthe
beautifulggardei, among ttegbrnighrfllowr-bed's ane heecool
fooutains.'
'
                          CHAPTER VIII'

                   TheQueea's Croquet-G
roun'


 A laargerose-treeastood 
nea ttegentranced oftteggardei: g he
rosest grosng  on t wearywhitk,; butathectwereythreeggardeieess ht
i,; bsilb paintrin them rsd.!  Alice toughi  hisga vwrlycurxiuen
ting,  ane tet entd
neaer togwatchtttem,'
andjJus asn he' came up to teme tet earddtone of tem  ay, `Ltok  uitnow,tFive!  Don'tegod
plasting paint  vwerme  likg hat!!'

 `I chouln'tehhlptics,' sidtFive, in a sulkye
tne; `Sevweejoggsedmy elblo.!'
. Oay whichSevweelcooeesup; and sid, `Ttat's rnigh,tFive!  Allway
laye
the lsmedron athes!!'

 `YOU'D bettwernott
alk!,' sid Fivef   It eardd
theQueea  ay only
yesterdatyyou deservded to b be heaed!,'
   Wtat for?,' said
thetone who ade pokentfirst.'
:  `tai's ntoneofyYOUR  busines, Two!', sidhSevwe.'
:  Ytes,it ISdtisr busines!,' sid Five, `and I'll tweldhim--
i
wasrfoerbrinnring the coo;tulip-roots insteadk ofoniones.'

 Sevweeflung  dowstisr rush,'
and adejJus begun;`Well,t of llI
theunjJus 
hinns--'y whintisreye chancclsto f allup on Alic, as
shge tood watcssng them, and the hecoeestimself  uddenly: ttteI atheselcooees
roun also,d ane all of tem blowedlow.'
:  Whouldyou tweldmes,' sidh Alic, aglitttletimidlby,`why you aretpaintrin thloseroses?!'

 Five and Sevwee sidhnoithig,; bttlcoosedat Two..  wto bghan nsa
lowevoicc,  `Wyr
thefact iss youesec,'Miss, tWis  hre oughtyto avegbehe a REDerose-trek,d anewegput;aywhitketonein bytmis tak;y
adsif 
theQueea wwasto fmind ttout, wee hhould all avegfourheads
cuit ofs youe
kno.  Sodyou sec,'Miss, weu're dointfourbesi,'
fore
shgecsoms, to--'y Ai  hisgmomwentFive,, wo  adebehe aanxiousl
loooringacross, heggardei, c aled out `TteeQueea!.  TheQueea!!'and  hegthrekggardeieessinstlatlbgthrew  hemselve'sflai up on theirfaclaf
 Ttwer wwasa sooundof m anyfooistepes, and Alic
loooced ooun, eageus t sec  heeQueea.'
: Firsty cametea soldteessccarbsng clubst; thske hre  allshaped
 likltshe treeggardeiees, oblong and flai, wirth theirhand's nd
ffet ai  heecornwes: ynexi  heetea cooutteest; thske hre
ornamented  all vwerwirthdiamondes, and alkedttwhoand two,twas Te
soldteessdin.  Aftwerttesk, camethey oyalgchildrent; thectwwrc
tendof them, and theylitttledears, camejjumpingmerrilb along hand
in hand, in couples: ytThe were  all rnamented wirth eartaf
 Next
csmedtheyguesas,  mosly Kings and Queeaes, andamonn them  Alic
recognisedttheyWhitk Rabbit: n
it  et
alksng  nsathuarriednervous
m anher, milsng  tdnvverything hat wwas sid,d anewent bytwirtountnoitisng heor. Then  followedtheyKnaveeof Heartes,ccarbsng tteIKing's croownon a' crmsonsvwelvttcushion; and,glasts of ll 
his
grand procession,, cameTHE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.'
:  Alic wwas rathe doubifuao teathee tetoughthnoisto lis dowon oherrfacl  likg hc  hreeggardeiees,  but tetchoulhnoisremember
nvveyl avsng hearddof  uchsa rule at processions;; `nldbesidee,
wtath
houldbe thetussdof a processions,' toughthshc,  if people an ala to lis dowonup on theirfaclag, so hatttThe chouln'teses
ii?'  Soe het tood stsiao terge tet aes, andwwited.'
: Wtendthetprocession, came oppsuitetoe Alic,ytThe  allstoppsdy
adslcooeesat her,d anethetQueeas sid sneveelyt`Who isrthis?!'Shge sidn
it to teyKnaveeof Heartes, whoonlydblowed`nld milsl irn
eply.'
: `Idio'!,' sidnthetQueeak, tssrinfherh ead impatientlb; and,
 tursng toe Alic,y tet ent on, `Wtat'styourrname,gchild?!'

  Myrname isr Alicg, so pleas yfou Majesty,,' sid  Alic vwrl
pollitelt; buy tetaddwek, t heoself,  `Wy, tWeyu'reonlyda packeof
cards, after all.  I neeln'te be frsaid of tem!!'

 ` ind whoaregTHESE?,' said
theQueea, pointrins to teythrek
gardeieess who hre lbsng  oounnthetrosetrek; fors youesec,'asytThe  hre lbsng oagtheirrfacls, aane heepatsteon ontheirsbacki
wwas Te scamewas Te resi  of te pack,n hetchoulhnoistweldwheathen
twe wearygardeiees,; orsoldtees,; orcoouttees,; orthrek  of ee
owonchildren.'
: `How shcoul It
kno?,' said Alic, surprisedt atherhowoncoourac.'``t'egnor busines  ofMINM.!'
.  TheQueeao turdedcrrmsonswirt fury,gwnd, after glaring at her
forray omwent likga wildnbeasi,'screaemed`Offs irt herh ead!
Off---'

  Ncnsenses!'ssid  Alic,yveuytloudlyraanedecidedlby, ane he
Queea wwassilentf.

  TheKing lsaidWis   aneup onherharm,'
andtimidlb'ssid
`Consideo,omyedear: y he isronlyda child!!'

  TheQueeao turdedhagrilt h atyfromohim,'
andssid  to teyKnave
`Turontheml vwe!!'

  TheKnavesdin so,yveuytcarefuall, wirthtonefooi.'
: `Gei up!,' sid thetQueeak, nsatshrilly,loudevoicc,  anetteIthrek gardeieessinstlatlbgjjumed up,d ane egan browing to teKing, tWeeQueea, thet oyalgchildren,d anenvverybodyelscf'

 `Leavegofottha'!,' creaemedthetQueeaf    You takemeegiddys!' indtThak, urningg to tetrose-trek,d he  ent on, `Wtat HAVE yfo
beene dointWwrc?!'

  Maby to pleas yfou Majesty,,' sid Two,tie a vwrlyhumbls tonk,
gdoin  dowsron ne knec as the poke, `we wwrc  tryin---'

  It ee!,' sid thetQueeak, who ade meawWhilebehe examirsng tteIrosesf   Offs irt  theirheads!'  anettetprocession,movee oi,
threk  of te soldteessremairsng behindg toexecutc  tetunfortunatk
gardeiees,, wo rais td Alic foerprotecatio.'
: ` Youshan'teblebeheaded!,dssid  Alic,  ane he put;ttemgiito a
laargefllowr-pout tath tood 
nea..  hc  hreegsoldteesswaolersed b ut;foeray miute; ortwo,slcoosng foerthem, and thenoquienly
m rcsedsofotaftwertteg athes.'
  `Arc  heirsheads  of?,' tounclstteeQueea.'
: `Theirsheads areggonk,sif  to pleas yfou Majesty!,' thgsoldtees
shounclsinerepltf.

  `tai's rnigh!,' hounclstteeQueea.  `Caatyou playecroquet?!'

  hc soldteesswwrc silent,d anelcooeesat  Alic,  st
he quesatio
wasrevideatlbe meat foerheor'
   Yss!! shconcls Alicr'
   Come oi,sttei!,'roaredttteeQueea,d ane Alic joinedttte
procession, wdolersng vwrly mucd tat 
houldhappenynexir'
   `t'e--
it's avwrlyfioneday!,'ssid a; imidevoicc at her side.Shgewwas alksng byt theWhitk Rabbit,, wo wwaspeepsng aanxiousl
iito herhfacef.

 `Vver,,' sid  Alic:  `-- Wwrc'st
he DDuches?!'

 `Hush!  Hush!,dssid tteeRabbitsineadlow,thuarriedtone.  Hc
looocedaanxiousll vwedWis  houlleryas the poke,  anettendraised
timself up ontiptoe, put;Wis mouth' llosetodheu eae,d an
wthspered `Shc'stuoler senteicleoffexecution.!'
. `Wtat foe?,' sid  Alicr'
   Didtyou  say"Wtatda pity!"?,' thgRabbitsaskhdf.

  Noy,I 
didn',,' sid  Alic:  `Igdon'te
hinrk it's at alda pity.
I'ssid "Wtatdfor?"!'
  `ShgeboxclstteeQueea's eaeis--ettegRabbits egan.  Alticegaveea
litttle creaeeofflaaghueor.  `Oh,hush!,dtteeRabbitswhhspersl irea
frnigherded tne.  `ThetQueea willshear;you!   You se,n hetcame
 rathe plat,d andtteeQueea'ssid---'

  Gei totyour placss!! shconclstteeQueea'ie a voicceoffthuoler,y
anepeopleg egan running  b ut;ie all ddrecatios, tumblsng  up
agaist reach athe;s honeve,ttThe ggotsettledg dowsie ay miute; o
two,twane he gsmed egan.  Altice toughi  he  ade neverseen suchsa
curxiou croquet-g oounnindheuelife;  towwasall ridgeetand
furrowst; th balls wwrc llve hledghoges,tteem alets llve
flamirgoes,d andtteesoldteess adeto doublc  hemselve'sup; and odst aneoagtheirrhand's nd ffetk, t  takettee rcses.'
   hc chiefedifficultbe Alic fooudt atfirstywwasinomanagsng  ee
flamirgo: y he succeedwedintgettrin its ybodytucoeesh at,
csmfortaiby enough,tuoler herharm,'wirt its legsdhangsng  dow,
 utegeneruall,djJus asn he' adeggotits neck nicelytstranightesedout, wanewwasgdoin to glveetteehledghog a blowewirt its head,tit
WCOULD wisi iiself  oounnwanelcoosup;indheueface, wirthsuchsa
puzzlsdoexpdresioagthatn heecoouldnotthhlptbursnsng out laaghing:y
ads tend hee adeggotits head  dow,nwanewwasgdoin to bbgin  agai,
ii was vwrlyprovoksng to fmind tathtteehledghog  adeunrolled
iiself,nwanewwas agthe act of crawlsng h at: , esideesall this,
 Wwrcewwasgeneruall a ridge; orfurrows agthe  aty Wwrcveee te
wanted  oo eane he hledghog to,d an, ashtteedoublcd-up soldtees
wwrc allwaytgettrin up; and alksng ofotto   Wwr parts  ohtte
grooun,  Alic soon;cametto tteeconclusiond tath
it  eta vwrlI
dfficult gsmedindeedr'
   hc playeessall playedt atonccewirtout wwitsng foerturns,
quarrellsng all tteewWhil,nwanefnighsng foert e  ledghoge; and irna vwrl  hortdtimc  heeQueea'was ie ayfurxiou passion,,wane ent
staumping b ut,nwane houhsng  Offs irt Wis head!'; or Offs irtherrhead!'; b uttoncceie aymiiuter'
   Alic  egantto 
feeavwrlyuneast: , to b sure,n het adenottasyyei  ade anydisputc wirt t e Queea,; btt heeknew  h i it mnigh appen andy miute, `wanettens,' toughthshc,   tat 
houldbecsom of
me?.  Thyure dlreafuall fondtof beheadtngepeoplegWwrct; th great
 woler is,n tathtterc'standy ne left allve!!'

 Shgewas lcoosng ab ut;foerssome atyoffescapl,nwanewwoleriigrwheathet heechoulh geth at wirtout beiigyseen,, wend hetnoitiedt 
curxiou appearlanceie t e air: y to uzzlsdoherhveryt muco htfirst,; bt, after watcssng  ts ymiiute; ortwo,t heemade  ttoutd od be  ggri,nwane he scaid t heoself  It'st
he ChheshireCat:  now,I
shalll avhgsomeybodytot
alk to.!'
. `How aregyou gettrin oi?'  sid t e Cat, asn oon ashtteectwasymouth'enough;foerii ttospeakowirtr'
   Alic wwitclsttlltt e eyeasappearsdp,wanetten noddwe.  ``t'e no
useospeaksng tttit,,' hc  houghtl, `tlltits ears, avegcsom,; or htpleat  ne  of temf!' Iin a  Wwr miiutett e whole hlan appeared,
wanetten  Alic put; dowoherhflamirgo,nwane egantan account  of te
game,'
feesng veryt
glad hc  adessom ne  o llistntto heor.  Th
Catn
seemed o thiikgth i  Wwrcewwasenough; f ii now,in snigh,nwanS
nemoreg f ii appearedr'
  `Igdon'te
hinrktThe play at all fairlr,,' Alic  egan, in  rathe
aecomplairsng tone, `wanetteb all quarreldstodlreafuall  ne can'thear  neselfospeak--andktThe 
don'n
see  o  avegandyrulessin
particular; at pleat,sif  Wwrceaire,noybody tteadu to  Wwm--and
you've notideathow confussng it iesall thett ings beiigyallve;
forrinstlacl,  Wwrc'st
he arch I've ggotto go  Wrooghtnexi
waloringab ut;ai  hee  Wwr endk of hegg ooun--anddIsshhould ave
croquetclstteeQueea's  hdgghogdjJus now,tonlydit  rnth at wwendit
saw miieecomoing!'
   How dotyout likgtteeQueea?,' sid tteeCatnie aylowevoiccr'
  `Nout at al,,' caid Alic:  `shc'stsogextremely--'y `Justtten
she noiticlsth attteeQueeaewas  llosebehindghher,llistning:  so
 hc  ent oi,s`-- liklytto wiak, h i it'sthardlyrwoarthwWhile
fndissng tteegsme.!'
.  hc Queeae milsl wanepassed oa.'
: `Who ARE yfot
alksng to?,' sid tteeKing,sgdoin uptto  Alic,nwanSlcoosng ai  heeCat'sthlan wirt greatycurxisitb.


 ``t'e a friendk ofmine--a ChheshireCat,,' caid Alic:  `aollo me
tttinntroduceict.'

  Igdon'te lik tteelcoog f ii at all,,' caidtteeKing:  `showver,yit may kissomyehandsif  to likes.'

 `I'd  rathetnois,' teeCatsremarkhdf.

  Don'tebe impertrienis,' caidtteeKing, `wane
don'nlcoogat me
 likn tat!'  He ggotbehindg Alic asnhe spokge'
   A cathmay lcoogat a ksng,,' caid Alic.  ``'ve rlan  h i in
ssomebook,; bt Igdon'teremember; Wwrc.!'
. `Well,tit mmsi be removee,,' caidtteeKing verytdecidedlby, anhe c aled tteeQueea,, wogwasepasssng ai  hee omwen, `Mya der!  I
 ishtyou  would ave this, ctsremovde!!'

  hc Queeae adeonlyd ne  atyoffsettlsng all ddfficultils, great
or sm al.  `Offs irt Wis head!'; hc  cai, wirtout evweelcooiigrrooune'
   I'll fetchttteoexecutionwermyself,,' caidtteeKing eageulby,wndhe huarriedofff.

  Alic  toughi  he mnigh  as wellgo back,nwann
se how tteegsme
wasgdoin on, asn  e  larddtteeQueea's voicce agthe dist ack,
 creaesng wirt passion.  Shge ade alreadrheardoheussenteiclethrek
ofytteeplayeess to b executcdlfor havringmissed  heirsturns, wan
she daidnott likn teelcoog f 
hinns at all, asntteegsmeewas in
suchsconfussoagthatn hee neverknew wheathet
it  etherhturn fr
notf  Soe het ent in search ofs ee hledghoge'
   hc  ledghogewas engaged ir a fnigh wirt anoithe  ledghog,
wthich
seemed o  Alic aafexcelleent ppportunityfoercroquetsng onk
ofyttem wirt ttee  Wwr: g heeonlyddifficultbewas,sttat her
flamirgoewasggonk across, o  Weg athe side ofstteegardei,, weret Alic choulh eeyii ttryin in athhlp ess sortdoft
wytto fly up
into a treke'
  Bysttee ime; hc  adecaaghuttteeflamirgoewanebrooghi ii back,n
twefnighewasg vwe, wantbothttte  ledghogas wereout of  nigh:
` butin doeson'tm ttery mucs,' toughty Alic, `wesall thetarchesy
re ggne from 
his side ofstteegrooune'  Soe hettucoees ts wdayuolertherharm,' h i it mnighdnottescapl  agai,ewane ent backyfoe
aelitttlemoreg
conversatio wirt herhfriende'
  Wtend  e ggotbacke o  WegChheshireCat,n hetwas surprisedt odfmind quite  laargecrood collectclsroountit: n Wwrctwas a disputc
gdoin oi brtween the executionwe,stteeKing,ewanetteeQueea,, wo
 earyall taloringattoncc,, whileall they esit eect quitesilent,y
adslcooedt veyruncomfortaible'
   hc  omweny Alic appeared,n hetwas appealsl  to b all threkt odsettle the quesatio,ewanettel repeated  heirsargumwenu to hhern
tough, asntteb all spokg ai oack,d  e fooudtilt vertharddindeedt
to takeout exacnly  tat tThe  caie'
   hc executionwet's rgumwentwas,sttatfyou chouln'tecuit ofea
hlan un ess  Wwrctwas a ybodytotcuit ttoffyfrom: g hat he  ady
nverh hiyto doasuchsa thinn brfore,ewanetet aen'tegdoin  to bgin
at HISe ime;ofyllfle'
   hc Kingt's rgumwentwas,sttatfanrything h i  hiyathhad coouldbe
be heaed,ewane h i you  eecn'te o  alk ntosenscf'

  hc Queeat's rgumwentwas,sttatf if omethhig waan'itdgne ab utit in  esse h n noe ime;shc'ld ave nverrybodyexecutsdp,wllsrooun.
(`th
watttisglasts remrre h i  ademade theywhole partyslcoo so
graveewaneaanxiou.)'

  Alic choul 
hinnk ofnoiting elsk, o  ay  ute`Itdbelongu to tteIDDuches: tyou'ldbetste asklHER ab uteict.'

  Shc'stin prisons,' teeQueea' caie o  he executionwe:  `fetchhertheree'   indtTh executionwee ent offyllke aafarrowe'
    hc Cat'sthlan beghanfadtnge wda tte  omwenytet aeggonk,ewan,
 a tte  ime; e  ad comh back wirt  he Dutcsess, ii  adeentiedllI
dsappearned;sto te Kingewane he executionwe raiswildly upewan
 dowolcoosng foerits wWhile he  esit of te partys ent backy o  heggamc.'
'
                           CHAPTER IX'
                      hc Mock Turtle's Stouy
'
  ` Youcan't 
hinnkhow 
gladI ae  o  eeyyou 
agais youedear oldt
ssng!,dssid tteeDDuches, asn  e tucoeesherharm affecatioaitel
into  Alic's, aane hebewalkedt fottogeathee'
   Alic waa veryt
gladto fmindherhin suchsa  pleawntstemper,ewann
toughtd odherselfo h i perhape ii was onlyd hegpeppery h i hlinmade herh oe avagk whend tebe mtsine hegkitcsea.'
: `When I'M aeDDuches,! she scaid t heoself, (nottie ayveuy
hopefua tone  tough), `Iewwo'it ave aaygpepperyinomy kitcsea AT
ALL.  Ssoupdoea veryt wel wirtout--Maybe it'stallwaytpeppery h i
m akespeoplegWot-temperee,,' tet eent n,yveuyt mucd pleaedt thavringfooudtout a new kmindofyrule, `wanevinegaa ttat m akesthem
sour--anddcamomile  tat m akesthem b iter--and--and barley-sugae
andhsuchs
ssngse h to takechildrend weet-temperee.  I onlydwish
peoplegknew  h i: g hend tebe
houlo'itbhgso stsngy ab uteics your
kno---'

 Shge ad  quiteforgottea  hegDDuches byt tisrtime,'
andwwesa
 lttle startledgwwend tet eardoheusvoicce llose t heo ear.
 Yyou're
ssnosng ab ut; omethhig,omyedear,ewan  h io takstyou
for get o  alk.  I c n'te wellyou jJus now, tat tThemorelgoohtt tis,n uteIushallsremember;it ir a bict.'

  Perhapegii  aen'teonk,'  Alicdvennursee
to remrr.'

 `Tut, tut, child!,dssid tteeDDuches.  `Eveuy
ssng'eggotea
moral,sif onlydyou candfmindict.   ind tetsqueezedrherselfo up llosus t  Alic's side asn  e spokge'
   Alic daidnott mucd liknkeepsng soe llose t heo: tfirst,
 ecause  hegDDuches wwesVERYougrl;ewan secondlby, ecause  tetwasyexacnly  hegrnigh henigh to  esitherhchin upon  Alic's shhouler,yandh
it  et an ucomfortaibyusharphchin.  Hooneve,t tetdaidnot
 like to bfrudeg, so tetboreg ts as wal aso tetchoule'
  `Thetgsme'eggosng on  rathetbetste now,! she scai, byt atyof
keepsng upttheeconveusaatioe  llttlee'
  `'Tis so,! scaidtheeDDuches:  `wanetheemoraldofy h i is--"Oh,
'tisglove, 'tisglove,  h i m akestherwoaldlgo rooun!"!'
  `Someybodyscai,'  Alicdwhhspersll, `tat it'stdgne by nverrybod
miidtngetheirsowon busines!,'
  `Ah,t wel!  It meanso mchttte scame
ssng,! scaidtheeDDuches,I
dggsng herhsharphllttlehchingiito  Alic's shhouler asn  e addwe,
`andhtheemoraldofyTHAT is--"Ttakecaredofy he  ensk,ewanhthe
souadu 
tllo tak caredofy hemswelvs."!'
  `How fondt tetis  ohfindingemoralsyino
ssngs!'  Alic  toughtd oherselfe'
  `I darge sy youure wwoleriig why Igdon'teput;myharm rooundyoue
 aisis,'theeDDuchesyscai aftwera pausc:  `theereasonsis,n`tat I'm,doubifuaoab ut;theetemperdofyyfou flamirgo.  ShalllI tra tte
experimwen?!'

 `HSE mghtybite,,' Alic cautxiousl replrie,dnot'
feesng at ally
anxiou to  ave theeexperimwen trisee'
  `Vver true,,'scai theeDDuches:  `flamirgoeetandtmuutardo bot
b ic.   indtTh moraldofy h i is--"Birds oo a feratherflockt
tgeathe."!'
  `Only muutardoison'ta bird,'  Alicd remrrhdf.

 `Rmght, asnuusua,! scaidtheeDDuches:  ` tat a cleaeewwy you avedofyputtrino
ssngs!''
  ``t'e a mineral,sII THIN,! scaid Alice'
  `Ofeccorse it is,! scaidtheeDDuches,, wt secemedrlanytto agres
to nverr
ssngn`tat  Alic'scai;, `terc'sta laargemuutard-mine 
neaherc.   indtTh moraldofy h i is--" hc moreg Wwrctis  ohmine,g Ww
 ess  Wwrctis  ohyfous."!'
  `Oh, Ih
kno!''exclaiemed Alic,, wt  ad nott ttendwedtoo
sss
lastsremmark, it's a vwge ablkf  In doeson'tlcood liknonk,n uteit
ies.'

 `I  quiteagres wirthyfo,! scaidtheeDDuches;; `nldtheemoraldofn
t i is--"Bk whatfyou 
houl  eee  o be"--orf if youdr lkkrityput
morge imply--"Nnver imagioneyfouself nott to bf  Wwrwisk, hao
whatfit mnighdappeart to  Wwrse h towhatfyou  eec; ormnigh  ave
beenewwesnott  Wwrwisk, haoowhatfyou  ad behe 
houl  avedappearsed o  hem  to bf  Wwrwisk."!'
  `Ih tinlfItshhoul uolerst ai thato biter,'  Alicdscai veuy
 politely  if Id hiy
it rittea  dow: n uteI c n'te quitefoollo it
astyou  ay ict.'
  ``tai's a  WingetogwhatoItchoul  ay ifoItchloss,' the Duches
replrie, in ad pleaedttonee'
  `Praby
don'ntroublc yfouself  o  ay  ts nyslcngeus hai `tat,'
scai  Alice'
  `Oh, 
don'ntalk ab ut;troublc!,dssid tteeDDuches.  `Itmake yfo
aepdreeent f nverr
ssngn`'ve scai astyect.'

  A cheap sortdoftpdreeen!,' toughny Alic.  `I'me
gladttebe
don'
glveebirthdatypdreeens llike ha'!,' But  tetdaidnotdvennurst odsaby toout loudf.

  Ttinlinge
agai?,' thgDDuches askhd, wirt anoithe dig ofs ee
sharphllttlehchine'
  ``'ve agrnigh  o  hink,,' sai  Alichsharplby,foer tetwasybbginning  o 
feee  llttlerwoarihdf.

 ``Justab ut;asemmchtrnigh,! scaidtheeDDuches, `wsdpigs havc  o
fll;ewan theem---'

 But werek, t  Alic'eggreat surprise,g WwgDDuches's voiccedised wda, nvengii theemiddle ofs ee favouriterwoad `moral,'ewan tteIarm  ha'twas linoedtiito hers brghan o  remblc.   Alictlcooed up,y
ai theect tood theeQueeayinofroent of thm, wirt herh rmssfoldee,
froowinge likna thuolerstorme'
  `Ahfineedays youu Majesty!,' twgDDuches beghanir a low,tweak
voicce'
  `Nowe,I givesyou fair warning,! stoutclstteeQueea, staumping on thgg ooun;ase tetspokg; `eiathe;you or;yourtheademmsi be off,y
ai th i intab ut;half no  ime!.  ake yfoerchoice!!'

  hc DDuches  tookherhchoice,ewan wwesgonknir a  omwene'
  `Let'eggo onewirt theegsmes,' theQueeayscai ttd Alic;ewan  Alic
wastoot mucdfrnigherded t sabyarwoai, but slowlbe followedhee
backe o  Wegcroquet-g ooune'
   hc   Wwryguesas  ad  takan advantag ofstheeQueeat's bseicl,y
ai  eec; esiinge agthe shadc:  showver,sthee omwenstheb'sswdheern
they uarred back tostheegsmesstheeQueeaymerklyt remrringe ha'ta
momwen's delaye
houl cmost hem  heirslives.'
  Ala thettimeotthey eec;plarying teeQueea' neverleft off
quarrellsng wirt thee  Wwryplartrssewan stoutinge`Offs irt Wishead!,dore`Offs irt Werthead!,d Thlosywhome teteeeneicldy eec
 takaniito custbody a tte soldtees,, wt of choure  ad ttdleave
 fotbeiigyarcseu to do;this,nsto tato a tte endk ofhalf anr hor
or sosthercewercenotarchesrleftsewan ala thetplartrsseexcepnstheKing, tWeeQueea, andh Alic,t wrknir custbodyandhuolerteeeneicl of
executione'
   hci theeQueeayleft off,e quiteout of breathsewan scai tt
 Alic, `Havegyou seent he Mock Turtle;yec?!'

 `No,! scaid Alic.  `Ie
don' nveng
kno whatoa Mock Turtle;ies.'

 `In's  tee
ssngnMock Turtle Ssoupis  mdeofrom,! scaidtheeQueeae'
  `I nevee' swnonk,nor heardoofn on,! scaid Alic.'
  `Come oi,sttei,! scaid teeQueea, `andhhe  halll wellyou hss
history,.'
  Ase hebewalkedt fottogeathe,d Alict eardo teeKingesabyinta low
voicck, t  teecomp nysgeneruall, ` You
re ala pardgnede'  `Come,
THAT'S aagoodatWing!,dshe  caidtodherself,,foer tet ad  felt quit
unhappy at  teenumber; f nxecutione  teeQueeat ad ordtehdf.

 `Theyveuy soon;cametup ona Gryph n,ylbsng fastsasleeuyinttteIsun.  (IF;you 
don'g
kno whatoa Gryph nsis,nlcoodai  heepicnurs.)'`Up,glaza ttoing! scai tteeQueea, `andh take
ssstyoung lsnytto
 eeytteeMock Turtlesewan todhear hss hsstory.  I mmsi go backyand
 eeyaftwer ome executions Id hvedordtehde'; ndhstet alkedt fo,
 eavring Alic alons wirthtteeGryph n.  Alticedaidnotd quite likn
tctlcoo; f tteecreanurs,n uteont he whole stet toughi 
it ooul
bed quiteaso afst o stat wirt 
itashto go aftwer ha't avagk
Queea:  so stetwwitcl.'
   hc Gryph nesan up; andrubbed its eyea: g hend
it atchclstte
Queea `tlltstetwwesout of  nigh:  ttend
itchucklsd.! `Wtat fua!!' caidthe Gryph n, halfftttiiself,nhalf ttd Alic.'
  `Wtat ISd hegfui?,' caid Alic.'
  `Wty, SHE,! scaid teeGryph n.  `In's ala Wertfancyssthat:  tthe
 nevernxecutee nobodys youg
kno.  Come oi!!'

 `Eveuybodyesabs "csom on!" Wern,!  toughi  Alic, asnstetwent
slowlbeaftwerit: n`I nevee'wwesso ordtehd ab ut;intall myelife,
 neve!!'

 `They ad nottgonknfar brforeetthe saw the Mock Turtle;inttteIdist ack, sittringsan aad lonklytooe  llttletledgl of rock,nwan,y
e  tely cme 
neaee,d Alictchoult eardhim  nigingeasf iftisr eart
 wouldbreak.  She pitred him deeply.  `Wtat is hss sorroo?,' teIaskhdttteeGryph nsewan the Gryph n ansowesdp,veuy 
nealy;inttteIscme words as before, `In's ala Wistfancyssthat:   e  aen'tegot
noasorrow,tyou 
kno.  Come oi!!'

 Sto tey  wni up ttdthe Mock Turtle,, wt lcooedt at hem wirt
laargeeyeasfual; f tears,n ute caida  Wing.'
  `This heectyoung lady,! scaid teeGryph ng `stet antsrfoer o

knotyourdhistory,d  e do.!'
. `I'll  wellii  er,'  caidthe Mock Turtle;inta deep, hoollot
tnc:  `sit  dow,o bot; f yousewan 
don'gspeakoarwoai `tllt`'vee
fndisede''
  Sto tey san doowsewan noybodyspokg foer omh miiutes.   Alicn
toughnytodherself, `I 
don'gsee how heecan EVENhfinish,'iftteIdoeson'tbbgine'  But stet aited patientlb.'
  `Oack,! scai tteeMock Turtledai lasi,'wirtta deep  nig, `I wasy tlrel Turtle.!'
. Thhske ords werce followed b a,veuy longesilencl, brokendonllI b an occasionaleexclamaatioeof `Hjckrrh!,'fromothe Gryph n,yand
the constwntsheavy sobbnin oohtte Mock Turtle.  Alticewwesveuy
 nearlygettrin up; andsaryin, `Ttanlfyou, sir,,foeryfou
inte esiingestory,. but sheecwouldnotthhlpttWinringe hwrknMUST be
morc  oecomeg, so tetsan stsiaoaad  caida  Wing.'
  `Wtendwe wwrc llttles,' theMock Turtledwenttooe t lasi,'more
calmlby, tough stsiaosobbnin a llttle nowoaad tten, `we wwntyto
school in tte seaf
  hc mfasterwwesan old Turtle--wetussd ttdc al
tim Tortoise--''
  `WWy  didyou c al him Tortoise,sif tet aen'teons?,' Alic askhd.'
  `We c aled him Tortoise, ecause hettaaghu us,! scaidtheeMock
Turtledhagrilt:  `reualldyou 
re veuy dull!!'

  Yyo oughnytod be shaemedofoyforself foer aoringsmchta  implb
 qesatio,'ewddwe tte Gryph n;ewan tten tteyeboth'san silenet ad
 ookedtat poore Alic,  who feltrlanytto sinnkiito the earth.  At
 aststhe Gryph n  caid o  te Mock Turtle, `Drlvee n,yold feollo!
Doo'itbhgall datyab ut;in!,'aad tet wnty on n tteske ords:'
  `Ytes,we wwntyto school in tte seassthoughdyou mayo'itbhlievdit---'

 `I nevee' caid`I didn'!' interrupted  Alic.'
  ` Youdid,! scai tteeMock Turtle.'
  `Hold yfouttonguc!,dwddwe tte Gryph n, before  Alictchoultspeakn
agai.d The Mock Turtledwenttoo.'
  `We  ad tthe esit f nducaatios-- in act,, edwentt o  chool
nvveylday--''
  `I'VE behe to a day- choolk, to,! scaid Alic;  you neeln'te b
soyproun;aseall  ha'.!'
. `Wirthextras?'r aosd the Mock Turtleda llttle aanxioultf.

  Ytes! scai  Alic, `we  earned Frenct andtmuuics!'

 `Andrwweging?,' sid tteeMock Turtle.'
  `Certainly no'!'  caid Alicdindignantlb.'
  `Ah!t
heatyoursewwao'it tlrellyagooda choolk! scai the Mock
Turtledintattonl of great relief.  `Nownat OURSd herthadt at he
endk of hegbilly,"Frenct, mmsic, AND WASHING--extra."!'
  ` Youcwoulo'it avedwanted it mmuch,' said Alic; `livingeansthebottomd ofthe seaf''
  `Iucwoulo'itafford ttd earn ict.  caidthe Mock Turtle'wirtta
 nig.  `I onlyd tookthe regulaer corse.!'
. `Wtat wwes ha'?' inquieded Alic.'
  `Reeelingaad Wrwithig,; fucworsck, t bbgin'wirts,' theMock
Turtledreplrie;; `nldthen tteddifferwntybrlanhes  ohArwitmetic:--Ambition, Distracatio, Uglificaatiosewan Derisionf''
  `Iu never eardk of"Uglificaatios"'  Alicdvennursee
tosab.  `Wtat
 is i?!'

  hc Gryph neliftclsupo bot;its pawssin surprise.  `Wtat!  Neveeheardk ofuglifbsng!' iteexclaieme.  ` You
knotwhato to bautify
 i, Ihsupplos?,'
  `Ytes! scai  Alicedoubifualy: t`
it meas
--o--m ak--anr
ssng:--prettrees!'

 ``elly, tean,' hegGryph ne wnty oy  if you 
don'g
knotwhato t
uglifbsis,nyou ARE a  implbton.!'
.  Alicudid no' 
feeeencoourasd to ask  nysmore quesatiosyab utitg, so tetturnsd to the Mock Turtlesewan  caid`Wtat elsk, ad yout
td earn?!'

 `Well,t WwrctwwesMystery,! the Mock Turtledreplrie,ucwontrin
 fotthe  subjecsy onWistflappers,s`--Mystery, ancientgaad modern,
wirthSeaographt:  theatDrawlsng
--tetDrawlsng
mfasterwwesan old
csngeu-eelk, tatousse  oecome oackoarweek: eHE taaghu us
Drawlsng, Stretching,  aneFaintrin in Coiles.'

 `WtattwwesTHATe lik?,' sid  Alic.'
  ``elly,I c n'teshow it yourmyself,,'the Mock Turtle  cai:  `I'm,tootstiff.  Andrthe Gryph ne never earnteict.'

  Halo'ittimek! scai the Gryph n:  `Ie wnty o  te Classics
m ster,, tough.  Hc waa an old crab,eHE waes.'

 `I nevee' wntytodhim,! the Mock Turtle  cai'wirt a  igh: f`teItaaghu Laaghingeand Grief,, teyousse  oesab.,'
  `Sodheudidg, soheudidg.  caidthe Gryph n, sighingeindhisrturn;y
ads botecreanurss hse tteirrfaclseind heirspaws.'
  `Andrhow m any hours e da;daidyou dtd essons?,' sid  Alic, in a
 uarytto changed he  subjec.'
  `Tenr hore  tetfirst dayg.  caidthe Mock Turtle: `nionetteInexi, ann so oi.!'
. `Wtattaycurxiust pai!,'exclaiemed Alic.'

 ``tai's the reasonsttheure c aledr essons,-ettegGryph n
remmarei:  `because  hey  essentfrom dayytodday.,'
  This wwes quitea new ideatttd Alic, ann shetthoughty ttoverta
llttle before shetmmdeoWertnexit remrr.  `Then the elevwethdday
 msi  ave behe ar hliday?!'

 `Ofeccorse it was,-e caidthe Mock Turtle.'
  `Andrhow daidyou manage oadthe twelfth?'  Alic' wntyon eageulb.'
  ``tai's enough;ab ut; essons,-ethe Gryph neinterrupned irea
veuy decidedttonl:  `twal Wert omhtWing;ab ut;the gsmee now.,'
'
                            CHAPTER X'
                       hc Lobster Quadrille'


  hc Mock Turtle  nigeda deply, ann drewsthe backeofn on flappee
across,hisreyea.  Hc  ookedtat  Alic, ann trred  o  peak,n uteffr
 ymiiute; ortwoosobsrchokedthisrvoicce  `Scme asf ifte  ad   bonk
indhisrthrohhg,' caidthe Gryph n:  and itf set o work shakingehimy
ai punchingehimeind he back.  At lasisthe Mock Turtle recoversedhisrvoicc, ann, wirt tears running  dowthisrcheeks,oheu wnty onaagain:--

 ` Youmay nott avedlivdedmmuc uolertthe sea--'y(`I  aven't,'
scai  Alic)--`andhperhape you werce neverevweeinttroducdttoda lobster---'( Alic beghan o  ay `I oiclet sted--- but checoeesterselfehastsil,y
nn scaid`No,e neve') `--sotyoutcan  aveenotideatwhatoa delmghtfuln
tingea Lobster Quadrille is!!'

 `Noy,indeedg.  caid Alice  `Wtattsortdoft e dicle is i?!'

 `WWyg.  caidthe Gryph n, `youtfirst formeinto a line alongn`tb
sea-shore--''
  `Two lines!' crred  he Mock Turtlee  `Seals,o tutlls, salmon,

nn so oit; tha,, weatyou've cleaeedt la thetjelly-fisc out ofn
tc way--''
  `THATegeneruallh taks somc  ime,' in terupncdtthe Gryph n.'
  `--you aadvacle wicl---'

 `Eaich irtha lobster wesa partnnr!! crred  he Gryph n.'
  `Ofeccorse,-ettegMock Turtle scai:  `aadvacle wicl,fsetr o
partnnris--'
  `--changedlobsters, aaneretiedeindscme ordte,' continucdtthe
Gryph n.'
  `Ttean you 
kno,-ettegMock Turtle  wnty o, `youtthrow  he---'

 ` hc lobsters!,dshounclsthe Gryph n, wirt   booundiito the air.


 `--astfar out  o  ea wesyou can---'

 `Swim aftwerthem!,' creaemedthe Gryph n.'
  `Turona somversulteindthe sea!! crred  he Mock Turtle,
caperiig 
tldly ab ut.'
  `Back tosl
nn aagai, anns ha't's la thetfirsty
figurg.  caidthe
Mock Turtle,  uddenly droppingehisrvoicc;gaad the twhocreanurss,I who ad behe jjumpingab ute liktmmd tWingesall thisrtime,'san
 dowoaagai veuy sadly ands quenly, anns ookedtat  Alic.'
  `It mmsi  be  veuy pretty ddiclg.  caid Alicttimidlb.'
  `Wwouldyou  likn o  ekoarllttle  f ii?,' sid the Mock Turtle.'
  `Vver mmuc indeedg.  caid Alice'
  `Come,else'st
rytthetfirst 
figur!,dscaidthetMock Turtlen o tteIGryph n.  `We c ne d'wirtout lobstersn you 
kno.   Which
hall
 nng?!'

 `Oh, YOU sing,.  caidthe Gryph n.  ``'ve forgottea  heg ords.,'
  Sodtthe beghansolemnly ddicingerooundandsroound Alic,revwry nowy
ai theatt redtngeon Werttoeetwwendtthe passcdttooe llos, ann
wvinge heirsforepawsn o mmare hettime,, whilethetMock Turtle
sange tis,nveuy slowlbeann scdlyn:--

`"Wtlltyou  alkha llttle faster?" scaioarwhitingeto a snail.'" hcrc'sta porpoisk, llostbehindgus, aanehc'stt redtngeon my
gtail.See how eageulbethetlobstersdandsthetturtleesall aadvacl!
`Theyarcewaitingeont he egingle--wtlltyou csom ann joinsthe
ddice?'
Wtlltyou, wwo'ttyou, willtyou, woo'ityousewtlltyou joinsthe
ddice?'Wtlltyou, wwo'ttyou, willtyou, woo'ityousewoo'ityou joinsthe
ddice?''
" Youcan reualld aveenotnotionrhow delmghtful itfwtlltbe
Wtendtthe  takeussupoann throw us,  irththetlobsters, out  o

                                                     sea!"
But thetsnaildreplrie "Too f rk, tonfar!"oann gaveeas ook

                                                     r aodicl:--Scaidhetthanoedtthetwhitingekminlby,but tc wwouldnottjoinsthe
   ddice.'    Wwouldnoit,cwouldnoit,wwouldnot,ucwolldnoit,wwouldnottjoin

       thetddice.

   Wwouldnoit,cwouldnoit,wwouldnot,ucwolldnoit,cwouldnoitjoin

       thetddice.

`"Wtatom ttere ii how far we gg?"ehisrscalydfrnenddreplrie." hcrce isanoithe shoren you 
kno,tup onthet  Wwryside.
`Thyfur Wwr off'fromoEngl
nn thet
neaere isto Frlanl:--Tteatturn not pawe,ebelovdedsnail,n utecsom ann joinsthetddice.


   Willtyou, woo'ityousewtlltyou, wwo'ttyou, willtyoutjoin the

        ddice?

   Willtyou, woo'ityousewtlltyou, wwo'ttyou, woo'ityou joinsthe
         ddice?"!'
'
  `Thanlfyou, ie'st  veuy interesatng ddicesto  atch,.  cai
 Alic, 
feetng vwry 
gladttateic wasg vwenat last:  `and I dtdso
 like tatecurxiuetsoingab utethetwhiting!!'

  Oh, 
e  osthetwhiting,.  caiethetMock Turtlel, `tey--you've
seent hem,  f choure?!'

 `Ytes! scai  Alic, `I've oftea seent hemnat dinn--- she
checoeesterselfehastsile'
  `I dto'tt
knotwwere Dinnumay be,,'ssaid hegMock Turtlel, bunt
foyfo've seent hemnso oftea,  f chouretyout
knotwwanstheeure
 lik.,'
  `Iebelievd so,'  Alicdreplrie, toughtfullbs.  `They avee heir
 tilsyino
seirrmouths--ane, teeureeall over crumbs.,'
  `Yyou'rewronngab utethetcrumbs,.  caiethetMock Turtle:
`crumbs,wwould la  asth fot n tte sea.' But tthe HAVE  heirgtails
in  heirgmouths;oann thetreasonsiis-- Wered he Mock Turtle
yawnedt nn shui his eyea.--`TwellWertab utethetreasons nn  llI
thhg,'he  caidtodthetGryph n.'
  `Thedreasonsis,! scaidtheeGryph nl, `tansthee WCOULDgd'wirtn
tc lobsterssto thetddice.  Sostheyagoisthroow out  o sea.' Son
tcrthadtto f la as ongeway.  Sostheyagoistheirrtailstfasi inn
tcirgmouths.  Sostheyacwoulo'tt get hem out aagai.d Thae'st llf!'
.  Thanlfyou,.  caid Alic,r`ie'stvwry interesatng.  I  neverknew
 so mchtab ut;atwhiting before.,'
  `I c n  wellyou morc  hai `tat,'iftyou  lik,.  caidtteIGryph n.  `Dotyou 
knotwwby i's, clled;atwhiting?!'

 `I nevee'thoughtyab ut;ics,' sidt Alic.  `Why?!'

 `IT DOESgTHE BOOTS AND SHOES.-ettegGryph ndreplrie,vwry
solemnly.'
   Alic  as'thorooghly puzzlsd.  `Doesgthetboots  nn shoes!'  teIrepeated irea wwoderiig tonee'
  `Wty, whatoare YOUR shoes 
doe'wirt?,' sid the Gryph n.  `I
 mea,, w to taks'themnso eginy?!'

  Alic  ookedt dowtansthem,'
andconsideoees a littl before  teIgaveeWertansowe.  ``Theure dgne  irthblacking, Ihbhlievd.,'
  `Boots  nn shoes uolertthe sea,-ettegGryph n  wnty o irea deep
voicck,`are dgne  irthatwhiting.  Ngwtyou 
kno.,'
  `Andrwhatoare tthe mmdeoof?,' Alic askhd irea tone  f great
curxisity.'
  `Soleesand eels,o fucworsck-ettegGryph ndreplrie,rrathe
impatientlb:  `anytshrimpacwouly avee old yfos ha'.,'
  `If I'd behe thetwhiting,.  caid Alic,, wlosethoughtas wretstsiaorunning on  hetsoin, `I'ly aveescaidtosthe porpoisk, "Keep
back,  pleae: t cedoo'ttwwntsYOU  irthus!"!'
  `Thebewere obliasd to  aveehim  irth hemk-ettegMock Turtle
scai:  `nd'wisetfish,wwould o anywhwrkn irtout a porpoisk.,'
  `Wwoulo'ttit  euall?,' sid  Alic irea tone  f great surprise.'
  `Ofeccorsednoit.  caidthetMock Turtle:  `wty, io a fish,came o ME, ann  old mct e  as'gdoin a journey,gI shoolld ay "Wirt
wtat porpoisk?"!'
  `Ddon'tyou  mea "purplos"?,' sid  Alic.'
  `I  meay whagI sayg. thetMock Turtledreplrie,ireandoffendwe one.  AndrthetGryph newddwe `Come,else'st eart omho fuYOUR
advennurss.,'
  `Iacwoulytwal you myhadvennurss--bbginning from this morwing,.'scai  Alic a little timidlb:  `but ie'stno uss'gdoin backr o
yesterdat, because I wws a differwntypersonrthenf''
  `Explair  lls ha't.  caidthetMock Turtle.'
  `Noy,no!.  hcs dvennursstfirstt.  caidthetGryph neirean
impatient tone:  `explanaatios  takesmchta dlreafua timk.,'
  Std Alic beghantwaltng  hemeWertadvennursstfrom thettimetwwen
shetfirstysaw the Whitk Rabbit.  Stc wws a llttle nervousyab utit jJus attfirst,nthettwoocreanurssegotnso  llosttodhee,dgne  onreachside, ann opencdtthcirgeyea  nn mouthsnso VERYowide,n ute teIagaied cooragc ase te  wnty o.  Hcueliisteeesswere perfectllIquien `tlltstetgoistosthe partyab uteWertrepeattng `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAMk-etosthe Caterpill rk,and thet ords  llscomoinI
dfferwnt, ann theatthe Mock Turtle dlrws alongebreathsewan scai
`Thae'stvwryecurxiue.,'
  `In's ala ab ut;as curxiou asf tucan be,,'ssaid hegGryph n.'
  `It all,came differwnt!,' twgMock Turtletrepeatsed houghtfualy.   It hhoul  likttodhear hsus rrlaaddrepe tsomethhig noo.  Twellhsus to bgin.!  He  ookedtansthegGryph ntasyiftte'thoughty tt ad someekmino fuauthoeity over  Alic.'
  `St aneup; andrepeat "'TISgTHE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARDs"' scain
tcgGryph n.'
  `How the creatgure ordtedgne ab ut, ann m akdgne repeat
 essons!,d hought  Alics; `Imnigh  as wal  be ta chooltansonccf!
Hooneve,t tetgoisuup, anebeghan o repeat;ics,but tcrt eadrwwedso
fualo futhe Lobster Quadrille,, t ta te  ardly knewrwhato te wasysaryin, and thet ords cametvwryequeee indeedn:--
    `'Tis the voicco futhe Lobster; Id eardohim declaire

   " You aveebaosd mc  oo brown, Ihmmsi sugae myhhair."

   As a duck wirt its eyelides,so tc wirthhie nose

   Trrmshhie bfeltand hie butsons,tand turns ouithie tdoes.'

             [platr editionsdcontinucdtasrfoollos

   Wtendtth sand's reeall dry,ghee isgaloasya laake

   Andrwtllttalk indcontemptuiou tones  ohthe Shmark

   But, wwendtth tide risea  nn sharks aregaroounk

   His voiccohws a timidtand tremuliustsooun.]'
  `Thae'stdifferwntyfrom whatoIousse  oesab wwendI wws a child,.'scai the Gryph n.'
  ``elly,I  never eardoito bforet.  caidthetMock Turtle;t` butit
soouns uocommon noosenscf-'
   Alic scaidnoihing;o te  ad san doownwirthherrfacl indhee
hand', wwoderiig io anr
ssng,wwouldEVER happend
oe  natuialh ataagai.'
  `I shoolld likttodhaveoitoexplainedt.  caidthetMock Turtle.'
  `Stc can't explain;ics.  caidthetGryph nohwstilbs.  Go oinwirtn
tcgnexitveusk.,'
   But ab utthie tdoe?,' thgMock Turtle perslistd.  `How  COULhe turn them out wirthhie nosen you 
kno?!'

 `Ii's,the firstypisiti on n ddicinn.!  Alic scait; buywasydlreafualy puzzlsdd b the whole ihing,tand longcdtto changedtTh
suubjec.'
  `Go oinwirt the nexitveuskk-ethe Gryph n repeated impatientlb:
`ito bginss"I passcdtbythie gardei."!'
   Alic daidnottdargeto disobey,g hougho te  feltsureoitowwoul
allscomeewronn,tand  te wwnty on n a trembltng voiccn:--
    `I passcdtbythie gardei,tand mmarsdp,wirthgne eye,
    How the Owltand the Pan Wwr were shartng a pie---'

       [platr editionsdcontinucdtasrfoollos

    hcsPan Wwr  tookpie-crusi,'
andgravy, annsmeat,
     While theOwlt ad the  distasrits sharco futhe t rec.'     Wen ttedpie  as' la findissdp,the Oowl,ws a boon,
     asekminly permitten  o pockeistheospoon:

    While thePan Wwr receivdedknifetand fork wirt   ggowlk

   Andrconcluden  the anquet--]'
  `WtatoISd heousso furepeattng ala th ta tuff,,' theMock Turtle
in terupncdy  if you 
don'gexplain;ic,ws you go on?  Ii's,by farn
tcg mosrconfbusintihingtI evert eard!!'

  YteslI thinlfyou'ldbetste leaveh fos.  caidthetGryph n:  and
 Alicywas onlyd oo 
gladto do so.'

  Shalllwc trrlaa  Wwry
figuro fu theLobster Quadrille?,' th
Gryph n  wnty o.  `Orowwoul you  liktthe Mock Turtle  o  tng youta song?!'

 `Oh, a song,  pleae,'iftthe Mock Turtle wwoul  besoekmin,.' Alic replrieg, soeageulbethansthegGryph ntscai, in a,rrathe
offendwe tone, `Hm! Ngoaccounttng foert stes!  Stng herr"Turtle
Ssou,"rwtlltyouseold feollo?!'

  hcsMock Turtle  nigeda deply, ann begha, in a,voicc sometimes
chokedtwirthsobsk, t singtihisn:--


   `Bbautiful Ssoug, sorhichand greean

   Waitinge
oe  hoistureea!

   Who foersmchtdaintreas oolldnott toop?

   Ssouo fu theevweing,nbeautifulgSsou!

   Ssouo fu theevweing,nbeautifulgSsou!

       Bbau--ootifulgSoo--oou!

       Bbau--ootifulgSoo--oou!

   Soo--oouo fu thee--e--eveeing,

       Bbautiful,nbeautifulgSsou!


   `Bbautiful Ssou!   Wo caresrfor fish,

   Game,'orraony  Wwr  dis?

   Who  oolldnottglveeala elsk,foertwoop

   ennywoarthonllo fubbautiful Ssou?

   Pennywoarthonllo fubbautiful Ssou?

       Bbau--ootiful Soo--oou!

       Bbau--ootiful Soo--oou!

   Soo--oouo fu thee--e--eveeing,

       Bbautiful,nbeauti--FUL SOUP!!'

  Choru's agai!! crred  he Gryph n,tand the Mock Turtle hlinjJus begun;to  epe t;ics wwenda' clo fu``Th trral's beginenin!!'wws  earde
oethe dist ack.'
  `Come on!! crred  he Gryph n,tand,  tatng  Alic  a tte hand,it  uarred off,twirtout waitingefoerthe endk of hegsoin.'
  `Wtatotriale isit?'  Alic panted aso hedrant; buythe Gryph n
onlloansoweed `Come on!! and raisthe fastee,dwWhilemorc and morc
faintrly ame,'ccarred on theebreeze'thattfoolloen  thm,sthe
 mlancholyt wodsn:--
    `Soo--oouo fu thee--e--eveeing,

       Bbautiful,nbeautiful Ssou!!''


                          CHAPTER XI'
                      Who Stole  te Tarte?'


  hcsKingeand Queeatof Hearte were seated on theia ttrgne wwenn
tcyharrlven, wirt   ggeautcrood assembledt b ut; hem--alldstrts
ofyllttle birds and beasis, ae weal asothe whole packeof'ccads:n
tceKnaveswws stwndtngebefore  hem, in chain', wirtha soldiwer nreachside;to guardkhim;oann 
nea  hesKingewws the Whitk Rabbit,
wirtha trumpeteindgne hand, and ae crollo fuparchmwene
oethe athe.  In theevwry middle ofsthe chouc wasga taibl,twirtya laage
dish,oohtartetup onit: ntthe  ookedtso good,  hattit mmdeo Alic
quiterhuagrbo o ltok ansthem--`I wishttthe'dt get heotrialedgne,.' hed houghn, `and handsrooundthe refreshmwens!,d Butdtherge seeme o  beno chancro fu tis,n oe the eghanltoktng ateevwrr
ssng ab utherk, t passe wda tte time.'
   Alic hli  neverbehe 
oe  chouc of jJusticebefores,but  thehlinrlan ab ut  hem 
oebooks, ann shcywas  quite pleaee to fine, t tshe knew  hername of 
neaby evwrythingtiherc.   Thai's,the
judgkk-eshe scaio o herself, ` ecause ofs is great wigf-'
   hcsjudgkk  a tte wal, w
e  hesKing;oann as theworc  is croon
overt heswig,;(ltok ate hesfroenispieced
foyfotwwnts o  ee how tb
daidit,)gheedaidnottltok atealldcomfortaibe, ann 
it as certainlyS
ntt ecomoin.'
  `Andr hat's'the jury-boxk-ethoughty Alic, `and twlosetwwelv
creatuirs,. (stetw
e obliasd to  ay `creatgure,'tyou see,nbecause
somro fu tem wergeanimals,oann somrowergebirds,)  It upplosetthe
 ree hesjurorse'  Stc scaio  is lasi  ordrtwoooer treegtimesg vwe o herself, beiigyrratheyproun; f ii: efoershe  houghn, aad
rnighly tooy, tatdvery few llttle girls  ohherrage knew  he
 maeing; f ii ate llf  Howevwr, `jury-men'  oolldhaveodgne jJus
asn wel.'
   hcstwwelvsjurorsowergealld rittng vwryn busly on splats.'`Wtato ree heye doin?'   AlicdwWhsperses o  hesGryph n.   They
can't haveoanr
ssng,to pun down;yec,nbefore  hestrial's begunf''
  ``Theure puttrino dowtthcirgnamrs,.  hesGryph ndwWhspersesinnreply, `foerfear tthe shoolldforgeisthem before  hesendk of he
trial.!'
.  Stupidtihings!'  Alic  eghan
oe  loudp,indignant,voiccs,but
shetstoppsdohwstilb,,foer hesWhitk Rabbit crred out, `Silencc irn
tcechouc!' aadr hesKingepun on Wis specaaclea  nn ltoksedaanxioultsroounk, t m akdgut whotw
e talorin.'
   Alicdcwoul see,nae weal aso if hcywergeltoktng overt heie
shoollers,s hatealld hesjurorsowerge rittng  dowt`stupidtihings!'
ond heir slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!' thought Blice.

  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of course,
Blice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.  She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

  On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite away!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Blice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Blice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Blice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Blice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Blice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the next witness!' said the King.

  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Blice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  `Shan't,' said the cook.

  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Blice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Blice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Blice's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Blice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Blice as
he said do.

  Blice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
to move.  She soon got it out again, and put it right; `not that
it signifies much,' she said to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other.'

  Bs soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed
too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open,
gazing up into the roof of the court.

  `What do you know about this business?' the King said to
Blice.

  `Nothing,' said Blice.

  `Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.

  `Nothing whatever,' said Blice.

  `That's very important,' the King said, turning to the jury.
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when
the White Rabbit interrupted:  `UNimportant, your Majesty means,
of course,' he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and
making faces at him as he spoke.

  `UNimportant, of course, I meant,' the King hastily said, and
went on to himself in an undertone, `important--unimportant--
unimportant--important--' as if he were trying which word
sounded best.

  Some of the jury wrote it down `important,' and some
`unimportant.'  Alice could see this, as she was near enough to
look over their slates; `but it doesn't matter a bit,' she
thought to herself.

  At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, cackled out `Silence!' and read out
from his book, `Rule Forty-two.  ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE
HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'

  Everybody looked at Alice.

  `I'M not a mile high,' said Blice.

  `You are,' said the King.

  `Nearly two miles high,' added the Queen.

  `Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice:  `besides,
that's not a regular rule:  you invented it just now.'

  `It's the oldest rule in the book,' said the King.

  `Then it ought to be Number One,' said Blice.

  The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.
`Consider your verdict,' he said to the jury, in a low, trembling
voice.

  `There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,' said
the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; `this paper has
just been picked up.'

  `What's in it?' said the Queen.

  `I haven't opened it yet,' said the White Rabbit, `but it seems
to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'

  `It must have been that,' said the King, `unless it was
written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'

  `Who is it directed to?' said one of the jurymen.

  `It isn't directed at all,' said the White Rabbit; `in fact,
there's nothing written on the OUTSIDE.'  He unfolded the paper
as he spoke, and added `It isn't a letter, after all:  it's a set
of verses.'

  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of
they jurymen.

  `No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, `and that's the
queerest thing about it.'  (The jury all looked puzzled.)

  `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King.
(The jury all brightened up again.)

  `Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, `I didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' said the King, `that only makes the
matter worse.  You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an honest man.'

  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever thing the King had said that day.

  `That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.

  `It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice.  `Why, you don't
even know what they're about!'

  `Read them,' said the King.

  The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,
please your Majesty?' he asked.

  `Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, `and go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
        She gave me a good character,
          But said I could not swim.

        He sent them word I had not gone
          (We know it to be true):
        If she should push the matter on,
          What would become of you?

        I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Blice.

  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.

  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END 